# Generate your SSH key

## Introduction

Using the SSH protocol, you can connect and authenticate to remote servers and services. With SSH keys, you can connect to VG100 git server easily and securely. This tutorial will help you generate your own SSH key. To learn more about SSH authentication, refer to [About SSH](https://help.github.com/en/github/authenticating-to-github/about-ssh).

## Linux / Mac

### Step 1 Check for existing SSH keys

Open your terminal and type

```bash
$ ls -al ~/.ssh
```

Check whether you already have `id_rsa` and `id_rsa.pub`.

1. If these files exist, go to step 4.
1. If `.ssh` directory does not exist, or it's empty, go to step 2.

### Step 2 Install OpenSSH

In your terminal, install `openssh` using your package manager. For example, in Ubuntu, type

```bash
$ sudo apt install openssh
```

In Mac OS X, type

```bash
$ brew install openssh
```

### Step 3 Generate a new SSH key

In your terminal, type

```bash
$ ssh-keygen -C "your_name@sjtu.edu.cn"
```

Then when you are prompted 

```
> Enter file in which to save the key (/Users/your_name/.ssh/id_rsa):
```

Just press Enter to save the key in the default directory. Then when you are prompted 

```
> Enter passphrase (empty for no passphrase):
> Enter same passphrase again:
```

Usually, you can just press Enter to leave the passphrase empty. You can also set your passphrase. To learn more about the passphrase, see [Working with SSH key passphrases](https://help.github.com/en/github/authenticating-to-github/working-with-ssh-key-passphrases).

### Step 4 Get your public key, change its name, and submit to us

In your terminal, check whether the key is already generated by typing

```bash
$ cd ~/.ssh
$ ls -al
```

You should be able to find `id_rsa` and `id_rsa.pub`. Then, copy the public key `id_rsa.pub` to another directory, and change its name. Type

```bash
$ cp id_rsa.pub ~/
$ mv id_rsa.pub LastName_FirstName_StudentID.pub
```

For example, the filename can be `Zhang_San_519370910001.pub`.

Finally, submit this file on Canvas.

**Important Note: Only submit your public key, i.e., the key with `.pub` suffix.**

## Windows

